Full Tilt Poker dotnet presents learn
from the pros there is no better way to
truly learn from the pros and get
together a bunch of friends talk a
little poker especially if they happen
to be very talented so we will continue
to do that the professor Howard letter
or joined by among others Shh I hear him
the mouth Mike Matusow hey Nona Chris
Mike how are you I'm doing much better
now that I'm here to see you thank you
thank you i expect plenty of yelling and
screaming i basically came to be amongst
my peers and speaking of peers including
the guy to your left phil hellmuth last
time you were here we introduced you as
the poker icon are you like that title
no it's up to you i mean i'll call you
whatever you want it's up to me of
course I'm the poker icon oh he's uh
he's the poker icon he's calling the
world in the balloon maybe can play
Chris Ferguson two thousand World Series
of Poker champion how are you sir I'm
doing great thanks and finally cloney
Gowan who I think should have wanted all
the wind on FSN Ohio finished third at
that tournament but you did win ladies
night you beat Annie Duke who's Howard
sister you guys okay with that what I
had to hear about it every day but it's
okay all right good thanks for joining
right kalyani to move on all right well
today's topic playing the short stack
and Phil Hellmuth u19 World Series of
Poker bracelets including the big event
back in 89 I imagine you have played
before the short stack so what's the
advice well I mean yeah I mean I think I
think the pros really look upon a short
stack play as being totally different
for me I like to kind of nurse my short
stack and wait for a very strong hand
where I think a lot of pros just want to
shove it all in there and try to get
lucky betting all of it sometimes I have
a short stack I'll bet twenty five
percent thirty percent of my chips and
I'll fold for a race rather than just
bad at all so it's a kind of a different
philosophy that I have how many I mean
when you do that Phil I mean even if you
pick up a big hand and you double up
you're still a short stack then the
problem is cloning for me especially
when the antes are out there is that so
many times in my life have been down to
two or three hundred and ships when
everyone else has 12,000 and I've come
back I'm pretty good at the short stack
and I'm come back to the chip lead and
so I have the
kind of you know the sting that makes me
want to save some chips because those
comebacks happen you know when I give
myself the best chance so yet definitely
fill and I have very different
philosophies on that i mean i think phil
has a lot of faith in his ability to win
a few hands and get back to the chip
lead I I like to kind of make my stand
before I get that short and I feel like
if you have enough chips so that you can
pick your spot and I know Mike agrees
with me on this is this so that you can
pick your spot and raise somebody with
enough chips so they can't even call you
and then you pick your spot right like
two or three or four times sometimes you
can get back to a strong step without
even risking going broke I have this
thing that I say okay I grab my chips
and there's a breaking point if I get
below the breaking point I'm out of it
so I leave myself like a couple ship
above the breaking point to where I can
move on people and get and pick up chips
and blinds and antes enough to keep
myself afloat and that's where I have a
different philosophy on Phil I I don't
believe in just sitting there and let
myself go down and try and give yourself
a chance to pick up hands I mean some
people just never get hands I know Phil
doesn't understand that because it
always good but you know when you don't
ever get hands you got to give yourself
a chance to you know survive Chris a
biggest mistake the diameters make is I
think blank too many hands in the
biggest mistake all apps is good even
when were there on the short stack well
on the short stack you can actually play
a couple more hands and they're there
really to two times that are very
different when you're on a short stack
if you're early in a tournament you're
very far away from the money the short
stacks can actually pick on the big
stacks right the reason is the big
stacks have to worry about losing all
their chips to another big stack the
short stack when he moves all in where
he's only risking the chips he has in
front of him but the big stacks have to
worry about losing a big stack not to
the short stack but to the other big
stacks so at that point the early in a
term of the short stacks actually pick
on the big stacks and no big jack wants
to double up a short stack either early
in the tournament so I understand we're
Krista from through there later in the
tournament though it's a little bit
different when you come close to the
money now it's the big stacks that pic
on the short stacks because you don't
want to you're a short stack you're
trying to eke into the money or you're
trying to move up the money ladder so
late in a tournament when you're close
to money or in the money it's the big
stacks that gets it well you know
there's also there's also something else
written into all of that Chris that you
and I and Howard every one of the
table takes advantage of and that's that
there's so many amateurs when we get
close to the money it's correct for us
to raise every pot because it's correct
for the amateurs who want to just make
the money and get three or four or five
thousand back to fold every hand then
also don't nice lastly nice philosophy I
we don't really care i mean do i get
5,000 back who cares i'm going to try to
try to double my chips at that point
surviving tickets t get too late in the
wrestling it when the blinds and antes
get high enough to where where you can
make a move I mean if you just survive
just a night and then you catch the
beginning rush the rush they win it hey
felt before we get out of here how short
stacked you have to be to not be a
favorite against like Madison no comment
whoa wait a second wait never if he has
never never a favorite against me he
could have every chip on the table i can
have this much he ain't a favorite again
you want you want the answer yes no nine
chips nah i think they know what I'm
talking about are you got mad as 99
words that come out of your mouth nine
that's nine World Series of Poker
Championship Wrestling new covenant
people how might you only no comment
it's never said that in his life I know
we're gonna have to play that back
that's gonna happen guys thanks very
much for the insight
to learn chat and play with the pros go
where they live Full Tilt Poker com
you